---
title: Build a library of things that can fail
---

Now that you have a `Maybe` type, you need to use it.  So now use it to build
safe versions of several common functions specified by the Prelude.

    headMay :: forall a. Array a -> Maybe a
    tailMay :: forall a. Array a -> Maybe (Array a)
    lookupMay :: forall a b. Eq a => a -> Array (Tuple a b) -> Maybe b
    divMay :: forall a. Eq a => EuclideanRing a => a -> a -> Maybe a
    maximumMay :: forall a. Ord a => Array a -> Maybe a
    minimumMay :: forall a. Ord a => Array a -> Maybe a

The functions `headMay` and `tailMay` are "safe" versions of the well known `head` and
`tail` functions. The former returns the first element of a list or `Nothing` if the
list is empty. The latter returns a list containing all but the first element of
a list, or `Nothing` if the list is empty. The `lookupMay` function is kind of like
the `lookup` for a map. Find the first tuple in the list where the first element
is the equal to the passed in value and return the second element. If there is
no matching `a`, then return `Nothing`. The `divMay` function should return `Nothing`
if you're dividing by `0` and the result of the division otherwise. (You might want to
review the documentation on
[EuclideanRing](../generated-docs/html/MCPrelude.html#t:EuclideanRing).) `maximumMay`
and `minimumMay` calculate the maximum and minimum respectively of all the numbers
in the list, but if the list is empty they return `Nothing`.

[Previous Page](ex2-1.html) - [Next Page](ex2-3.html)
