---
title: Using the abstraction
---

Now your Set4.purs module has fairly decent set of abstract tools all built on
the `Monad` interface. Now go back through sets 1, 2, and 3 and redo them all
using the library of functions you built up in Set4.purs. Since `Gen` is now a
newtype you will have to make some changes to the functions that use it.  This
may seem like a waste of time, but it will develop your familiarity with the
names actually used* by PureScript's monad library. This is the core of developing
a working knowledge of monads. The first three sets were the motivation. Now
we're getting to the real world use.

\* This is a lie. Unlike Haskell, `sequence` is part of `Data.Traversable`, and
PureScript's monad libraries don't have `liftM2` and `liftM3`. Instead, you could
use `lift2` and `lift3` from `Apply` (in `Control.Apply`), which is a superclass
of `Monad`, or you might rewrite using `<$>` and `<*>`. Also, `pure` is actually
a member of `Applicative`, but these Monad Challenges were originally written for
Haskell and asked the reader to implement `return` and `bind` for their `Monad`
instances. In Haskell, for path-dependent reasons, `return` is a member of `Monad`
and is equivalent to `pure`, as of the adoption of the [Haskell 2014
Applicative => Monad proposal](https://wiki.haskell.org/Functor-Applicative-Monad_Proposal),
when Applicative became a superclass of Monad in Haskell as well (implemented in
GHC 7.10). In current versions of Haskell, `pure` from `Applicative` provides
the default implementation of `return` in `Monad` instances.

[Previous Page](ex4-5.html) - [Next Page](set5.html)
